# 2DOF camera positioner using 2 servomotors and a joystick
First of all, here a 10-bit ADC programmed in an Arduino was used, attached to the repository.

• For the 360° freedom servo motor, it was a bit easier than for the 180° freedom one. With this one, when the digital signal is less than a given value of 150 (010010110 in binary), the control PWM signal has a positive period of 1 millisecond that rotates the motor counterclockwise at maximum speed. If the digital signal value is greater than the value of 900 (1110000100 in binary), the positive period of the signal is 2 milliseconds, which rotates the motor clockwise at maximum speed. And when it's neither of the two, the positive period of the signal remains at 1.5 milliseconds, which leaves the motor stationary. It is worth mentioning that the total period of the signal was managed for 20 milliseconds.

• For the 180° freedom servo motor, the programming process took a bit longer. The 180° range was divided into 20 (9° of definition in the range). When the ADC signal is less than 150, the FPGA gradually reduces the period of the PWM signal until it reaches a minimum of 0.4 milliseconds, and if the ADC value is greater than 900, then the positive period of the control PWM signal gradually increases until it reaches a maximum of 2.3 milliseconds. This was because the model of servo motor used has a lower limit of 0.6 milliseconds and an upper limit of 2.3 milliseconds. If the ADC value obtained does not exceed either of the two limits, the positive period of the PWM signal remains unchanged.

The project implementation video:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTHE_vo7brk